---
layout: post
title: rhythm-1
date: 2019-02-18 16:57
comments: true
tags: foo, bar
---


> Perhaps the most fundamental approach to improvisation emphasizes rhythm,
> commonly known in the jazz community as time or time-feel.
>
> -Paul F. Berliner, Thinking in Jazz

> I hear rhythms, mostly, and then I put notes to them.
>
> -Dizzy Gillespie

It's said that music is made up of three fundamental pieces---the rhythm, the
harmony, and the melody. If you had asked me a month ago which of these was the
most important, I'd unhesitatingly say "the melody."

I was wrong. It's the rhythm. Music without melody is sorta boring, but music
without rhythm isn't music at all---it's just noise.

When I began seriously studying music, I couldn't hold a beat to save my life. A
lifetime of playing classical music meant that *continuity* was never as
important to me as *playing the right notes.* As such, whenever I screwed up,
I'd stop and start again from the top. As you can imagine, this was not
particularly helpful for my sense of rhythm.

Do you know what was? Playing with the metronome. A lot.

> You should have the metronome on, eyes closed, standing up and getting inside
> of that pulse like you could eat it, chew it, punch it, sweat it. Feel it like
> it’s right there, like it’s tangible.
>
> To do this requires that you never practice without a metronome.
>
> For roughly 15 years I have never picked up a guitar without a metronome on,
> and now, to me, the sound of the metronome is the sound of practicing.
>
> -Brian Baker

```protip
Starting today, *every time you practice,* use the metronome for the entire
session.
```

It's amazing what having the right groove can do to a song. I was ignoring this
for the two years I was teaching myself guitar. Even if you're playing the right
chords, it just doesn't sound like the right song until the beat is in place.

So focus on the groove.

$$
X/4 X/4 X/4 X/4
$$

